- [Instructor] Now that we have all the necessary
configuration in place,
let's go ahead and add a basic HomeController class.
So on the IDE, right-click again on com.test,
create a class, and let's say HomeController,
that's the name.
Now this is the first controller that we're writing
as a part of the Spring MVC project.
Now in order to designate this as controller,
we will have to annotate it appropriately.
The annotation for that is Controller.
So Spring MVC will then know
that this is a controller component.
Now this controller component is supposed to be
intercepting some HTTP request,
and that request should have a unique URL pattern
which is going to be unique to the HomeController.
Now that URL pattern can be defined with another annotation,
which is called GetMapping.
So for this GetMapping, you can just specify an argument
with the help of brackets, and say /home.
Now for this /home pattern, we're supposed to write a method
because that's the logic that the controller
is going to execute.
How does that look?
Public, let it return a String, and let's say goHome,
and what do we do inside this,
let's first put a very simple Sys-out
saying that we are in HomeController,
and then we just return a String value.
That String value will be index.
So what we're trying to do here is
on line 12 you're returning index,
which is the name of the view.
You've discussed in the architecture before
that the controller will decide the name of the view
that we're supposed to go to.
So that is the view that we're trying to map there.
Now the DispatcherServlet is going to pick this view name,
and work with the ViewResolver,
and then resolve that to the index JSP template,
and carry that as a response to the browser.
So once we are done adding the basic HomeController class,
let's now build and run the application.
How are you going to do that?
On your right side of the IDE,
there's a Maven tab.
I'm just going to open that,
expand it, and on the lifecycle select clean
and install as the dockets.
Clean and install is basically going to help you
create a war file for this project.
That's what we want to have
so that we can run it on Tomcat.
Once we have the war ready,
you can just go to tomcat7 under the plugins,
and select an option of tomcat run-war.
So that's going to help us run the war.
So clean, install, and tomcat run-war.
Those are the three targets that we want to
basically run for executing the build.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So let this build happen.
It is going to create a war
and make it ready for you,
and then the plugin is going to run the war.
So you can see the progress
in the tab down there on the IDE.
There we go.
If you see, it has already given us a Sys-out
saying that it's initializing the Servlet MVC.
So this is that bootstrapping of DispatcherServlet
that has happened for us.
It's completed the initialization.
Everything is ready.
Now let's open a browser
and access the URL pattern of HomeController
to check out the application.
So let's go to an Incognito window
and requests are going to be processed with
the 8080 port, so let's first do that,
and then let's pick up the application name.
The application name is available in the form XML.
If you go right up, let's choose this, copy,
come back to Chrome,
give the name of the application,
and then the URL pattern
that you've defined in HomeController
is /home on line number nine.
So let's go to the browser,
say /home, and then
we have the application index JSP opened up.
So that is what our application is going to look like.
And we have rendered everything with Spring MVC project.
So to summarize quickly,
the Spring MVC Maven project that we created
takes a simple AnnotationConfigWebApplicationContext object
and makes sure that it registers the Spring configuration
that we're going to do as a part of this application.
After that, we went ahead
and bootstrapped the DispatcherServlet
using ServletRegistration dot Dynamic interface,
and we've made sure that we've tied up that context
to the DispatcherServlet.
So this is all weaved in together
to make sure that now your application
can start serving your requests,
and DispatcherServlet is going to do the job for you.
Additionally, further, if you want to make any kind
of other configuration for this particular servlet,
you can do that right here in this class.
However, any configuration that you need
for Spring-related features
can be put up inside ApplicationConfig
that will be picked up by the context.
So that is how Spring MVC can work with Maven only.
In the next video, we are now going to create
a Spring project for MVC using Spring Boot.